welcome/welcome-joiner.md, before:


# Welcome to Project Cascade!

If you're here, one of the Project Cascade Private Preview members has probably **shared a collaboration session with you**! Team collaboration should be so quick and natural, that it becomes harder not to do it! For this reason, Project Cascade makes it simple to get started. 

Just follow these steps to join a collaboration session:

### 1. Download and install Project Cascade for your tool
While ultimately an extension, follow these directions for installing Project Cascade during the Private Preview. 

<table style="width: 100%; border-style: none;">
<tr>
    <td style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="media/vs-icon.png" /></td>
    <td>
        <strong>Visual Studio 2017 Update 5</strong><br />
       - Install VS 2017 Update 5 (15.5) on Windows (7, 8.1, or 10) <br/>
       - Download and run the Project Cascade installer. <br />
       - Start Visual Studio after install to complete setup.<br />
       <a href="http://aka.ms/project-cascade/dl/vs"><img style="padding: 0; spacing: 0;" src="media/download-for-win.png"></a><br />
    </td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="media/vscode-icon.png" /></td>
    <td>
        <strong>Visual Studio Code</strong><br />
        - Download the combined Code + Cascade zip for Windows (7, 8.1, or 10) or Mac (<strong>macOS Sierra only</strong>).<br />
        - Unzip it where you want the install to live.<br/>
        - Start VS Code from there to complete setup.<br />
        <a href="http://aka.ms/project-cascade/dl/vscode-win"><img src="media/download-for-win.png"></a>
        <a href="http://aka.ms/project-cascade/dl/vscode-mac"><img src="media/download-for-mac.png"></a><br />
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

_Don't see your favorite IDE/editor? [Let us know!](https://github.com/Microsoft/project-cascade/issues/24) We plan to add support for additional tools based on community feedback._

### 2. Start a discussion with the collaboration session owner

It's always good to start up a conversation via voice or chat in your favorite client before joining a collaboration session since you'll obviously need to communicate to collaborate. In addition, the collaboration session requires the owner to be connected to the service for [a number of good reasons](../docs/getting-started.md#owners-and-participants) to operate so you'll want to check in with them.

### 3. Open/re-open the invite link in your web browser
After installing Project Cascade for your tool, simply open (or re-open) the invite web page using the invite link your college sent you.  You should be notified that your browser wants to launching your Project Cascade enabled tool and if you accept it the tool will launch and automatically start the process of joining the collaboration session.

> **Troubleshooting Tip:** Be sure you've **started the tool at least once** after installing Project Cascade before opening/re-opening the invite page. Still having trouble? See [manually joining](../docs/getting-started.md#manually-joining) in our docs.

### 4. Sign-in from within your IDE/editor

To let other collaborators know who you are, you may be asked to sign in during the join process using a GitHub or Microsoft account. If you are using Visual Studio and have already signed into the tool, Project Cascade will automatically use your personalization account if you've already signed into the tool so you can skip this step!

Any use of your sign in information complies with [Microsoft's privacy statement](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/privacystatement/EnterpriseDev/default.aspx).

### 5. Collaborate!

That's it!! In a few moments you'll be connected to your colleague's collaboration session. Want to learn more about what you can do? Check out our documentation.

- [Getting started](../docs/getting-started.md)
- [Visual Studio features](../docs/collab-vs.md)
- [Visual Studio Code features](../docs/collab-vscode.md)
- [Quick start: Sharing](welcome-owner.md)


Need help and not finding what you need in the docs?

- [Report a problem](../CONTRIBUTING.md#filing-visual-studio-problems) or just [raise an issue](https://github.com/Microsoft/project-cascade/issues).
- [Up-vote a feature or request a new one](https://github.com/Microsoft/project-cascade/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen%20is%3Aissue%20label%3Afeature-request%20sort%3Areactions-%2B1%20)
- Join the [Slack channel](http://project-cascade.slack.com) and chat with us!
- Shoot us a [mail](mailto:project-cascade@microsoft.com) with suggestions or questions.

Interested in joining the Private Preview so you can create collaboration sessions instead of just joining them? [Register now!](http://aka.ms/project-cascade)

Commit message:

Added license and privacy statement

welcome/welcome-joiner.md, after:


# Welcome to Project Cascade!

If you're here, one of the Project Cascade Private Preview members has probably **shared a collaboration session with you**! Team collaboration should be so quick and natural, that it becomes harder not to do it! For this reason, Project Cascade makes it simple to get started. 

Just follow these steps to join a collaboration session:

### 1. Download and install Project Cascade for your tool
While ultimately an extension, follow these directions for installing Project Cascade during the Private Preview. 

<table style="width: 100%; border-style: none;">
<tr>
    <td style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="media/vs-icon.png" /></td>
    <td>
        <strong>Visual Studio 2017 Update 5</strong><br />
       - Install VS 2017 Update 5 (15.5) on Windows (7, 8.1, or 10) <br/>
       - Download and run the Project Cascade installer. <br />
       - Start Visual Studio after install to complete setup.<br />
       <a href="http://aka.ms/project-cascade/dl/vs"><img style="padding: 0; spacing: 0;" src="media/download-for-win.png"></a><br />
    </td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="media/vscode-icon.png" /></td>
    <td>
        <strong>Visual Studio Code</strong><br />
        - Download the combined Code + Cascade zip for Windows (7, 8.1, or 10) or Mac (<strong>macOS Sierra only</strong>).<br />
        - Unzip it where you want the install to live.<br/>
        - Start VS Code from there to complete setup.<br />
        <a href="http://aka.ms/project-cascade/dl/vscode-win"><img src="media/download-for-win.png"></a>
        <a href="http://aka.ms/project-cascade/dl/vscode-mac"><img src="media/download-for-mac.png"></a><br />
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

By downloading and using Project Cascade, you agree to the [license terms](http://aka.ms/project-cascade/license) and [privacy statement](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/privacystatement/EnterpriseDev/default.aspx).

_Don't see your favorite IDE/editor? [Let us know!](https://github.com/Microsoft/project-cascade/issues/24) We plan to add support for additional tools based on community feedback._

### 2. Start a discussion with the collaboration session owner

It's always good to start up a conversation via voice or chat in your favorite client before joining a collaboration session since you'll obviously need to communicate to collaborate. In addition, the collaboration session requires the owner to be connected to the service for [a number of good reasons](../docs/getting-started.md#owners-and-participants) to operate so you'll want to check in with them.

### 3. Open/re-open the invite link in your web browser
After installing Project Cascade for your tool, simply open (or re-open) the invite web page using the invite link your college sent you.  You should be notified that your browser wants to launching your Project Cascade enabled tool and if you accept it the tool will launch and automatically start the process of joining the collaboration session.

> **Troubleshooting Tip:** Be sure you've **started the tool at least once** after installing Project Cascade before opening/re-opening the invite page. Still having trouble? See [manually joining](../docs/getting-started.md#manually-joining) in our docs.

### 4. Sign-in from within your IDE/editor

To let other collaborators know who you are, you may be asked to sign in during the join process using a GitHub or Microsoft account. 

If you are using Visual Studio and have already signed into the tool, Project Cascade will automatically use your personalization account if you've already signed into the tool so you can skip this step!

### 5. Collaborate!

That's it!! In a few moments you'll be connected to your colleague's collaboration session. Want to learn more about what you can do? Check out our documentation.

- [Getting started](../docs/getting-started.md)
- [Visual Studio features](../docs/collab-vs.md)
- [Visual Studio Code features](../docs/collab-vscode.md)
- [Quick start: Sharing](welcome-owner.md)


Need help and not finding what you need in the docs?

- [Report a problem](../CONTRIBUTING.md#filing-visual-studio-problems) or just [raise an issue](https://github.com/Microsoft/project-cascade/issues).
- [Up-vote a feature or request a new one](https://github.com/Microsoft/project-cascade/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aopen%20is%3Aissue%20label%3Afeature-request%20sort%3Areactions-%2B1%20)
- Join the [Slack channel](http://project-cascade.slack.com) and chat with us!
- Shoot us a [mail](mailto:project-cascade@microsoft.com) with suggestions or questions.

Interested in joining the Private Preview so you can create collaboration sessions instead of just joining them? [Register now!](http://aka.ms/project-cascade)
