README.md, before:

<!--
Copyright © Microsoft Corporation
All rights reserved.
Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License (International): https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode
-->

# Visual Studio Live Share Docs & Feedback

<table style="width: 100%; border-style: none;"><tr>
<td style="width: 140px; text-align: center;"><a href="https://aka.ms/vsls"><img src="docs/media/vsls-icon.png" style="width: 128px; height: 128px;" alt="Visual Studio Live Share logo"/></a></td>
<td>
<strong>Visual Studio Live Share</strong><br />
<i>Enabling developers to achieve greater confidence at speed by streamlining collaboration in real-time during development.<br />
<strong><a href="https://aka.ms/vsls">Learn more!</a></strong></i>
</td>
</tr></table>

While the initial focus of Visual Studio Live Share is real-time collaborative development of Node.js and ASP.NET/ASP.NET Core based web applications and services, [many features are broadly available](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/platform-support) and more will be coming in the future. *It is currently in a limited, private preview.* [Sign up!](https://aka.ms/vsls-signup)

[![Slack](docs/media/Slack_Mark-24x24.png)](https://aka.ms/vsls-slack) [![Twitter](docs/media/Twitter_Social_Icon_24x24.png)](https://aka.ms/vsls-twitter) [![Mail](docs/media/icon-mail-24x24.png)](mailto:vsls-feedback@microsoft.com)

>**Tip:** Did you know you can *join your own collaboration session*? This allows you to try Live Share on your own or to spin up a instance of VS or VS Code and connect to it remotely! You can even use the same identity on both instances. Check it out!

## Quickstarts

- [Share your first project](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/share) (after you've been accepted into the preview)
- [Join your first collaboration session](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/join) (no need to sign up or be accepted in the preview)

## How-tos

- [Collaborate using Visual Studio Code](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/vscode)
- [Collaborate using Visual Studio](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/vs)

## Reference

- [Connectivity requirements](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/connection-mode)
- [Security features](https://aka.ms/vsls-security)
- [Language and platform support](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/platform-support)
- [Extension support](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/extensions)
- [Troubleshooting](https://aka.ms/vsls-troubleshooting)

## Resources

- [Provide feedback](https://aka.ms/vsls-support)
- [FAQ](https://aka.ms/vsls-faq)

## Community-created content

- [Visual Studio Code: VS Live Share from Across the World](https://youtu.be/D7w0uGmQEc8)
- [Visual Studio Live Share - Two Developers Coding at Once](https://youtu.be/cg6pRv0D8pw)

## Download and install Visual Studio Live Share

<table style="width: 100%; border:none;">
<tr>
    <td width="128px" style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="docs/media/vs-code.svg" width="128px" alt="Visual Studio Code logo"/></td>
    <td style="border:none;">
        <strong>Visual Studio Code (1.22.0+)</strong><br />
        1. Install <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/">Visual Studio Code</a> for Windows (7, 8.1, or 10), macOS <b>(Sierra+)</b>, or 64-bit Linux <b>(<a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/vscode/install">details</a>)</b><br />
        2. <strong>Linux users</strong>: Be sure you have installed the needed <a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/linux-prerequisites">prerequisite libraries</a>.<br />
        3. Download and install the VS Live Share extension from the marketplace. <br />
        4. Reload and wait for dependencies to download and install (see status bar).<br />
        <a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-dl/vscode"><img src="docs/media/download.png" alt="Download button"></a>
    </td>
</tr>
<tr style="border:none;">
    <td width="128px" style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="docs/media/vs-ide.svg" width="128px" alt="Visual Studio logo"/></td>
    <td style="border:none;">
        <strong>Visual Studio 2017 15.6 or higher</strong><br />
        1. Install the latest version of <a href="https://www.visualstudio.com/vs/">VS 2017</a> (15.6+) on Windows (7, 8.1, or 10).<br/>
        2. Install a supported workload. e.g. ASP.NET, .NET Core, and/or Node.js<br />
        3. Download and install the VS Live Share extension from the marketplace. <br />
        <a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-dl/vs"><img style="padding: 0; spacing: 0;" src="docs/media/download.png" alt="Download button"></a><br />
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

By downloading and using Visual Studio Live Share, you agree to the [license terms](https://aka.ms/vsls-license) and [privacy statement](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/privacystatement/EnterpriseDev/default.aspx). See [troubleshooting](https://aka.ms/vsls-troubleshootin) if you run into problems.

## Contributing & Feedback

Have a question or feedback? There are many ways to contribute.

- [Up-vote a feature or request a new one](https://aka.ms/vsls-feature-requests)
- Search [existing bugs](https://aka.ms/vsls-bugs) or [report a problem](CONTRIBUTING.md#file-a-problem-report)
- Shoot us a [mail](mailto:vsls-feedback@microsoft.com) with suggestions or questions
- Jump on [Slack](https://aka.ms/vsls-slack) to chat with the team
- Hit us up on Twitter using [#vsliveshare](https://aka.ms/vsls-twitter)!

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## License

By downloading and using Visual Studio Live Share, you agree to the product [license terms](https://aka.ms/vsls-license) and [privacy statement](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/privacystatement/EnterpriseDev/default.aspx).

License for documentation:

    Copyright © Microsoft Corporation
    All rights reserved.
    Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License (International): https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode

License for documentation code samples:

    The MIT License (MIT)
    Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation

Commit message:

First pass at removing private preview specific content

README.md, after:

<!--
Copyright © Microsoft Corporation
All rights reserved.
Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License (International): https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode
-->

# Visual Studio Live Share Docs & Feedback

<table style="width: 100%; border-style: none;"><tr>
<td style="width: 140px; text-align: center;"><a href="https://aka.ms/vsls"><img src="docs/media/vsls-icon.png" style="width: 128px; height: 128px;" alt="Visual Studio Live Share logo"/></a></td>
<td>
<strong>Visual Studio Live Share</strong><br />
<i>Enabling developers to achieve greater confidence at speed by streamlining collaboration in real-time during development.<br />
<strong><a href="https://aka.ms/vsls">Learn more!</a></strong></i>
</td>
</tr></table>

While the initial focus of Visual Studio Live Share is real-time collaborative development of Node.js and ASP.NET/ASP.NET Core based web applications and services, [many features are broadly available](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/platform-support) and more will be coming in the future. **It is currently in public preview. Features and UX should not be considered final.**

[![Twitter](docs/media/Twitter_Social_Icon_24x24.png)](https://aka.ms/vsls-twitter) [![Mail](docs/media/icon-mail-24x24.png)](mailto:vsls-feedback@microsoft.com)

>**Tip:** Did you know you can *join your own collaboration session*? This allows you to try Live Share on your own or to spin up a instance of VS or VS Code and connect to it remotely! You can even use the same identity on both instances. Check it out!

## Quickstarts

- [Share your first project](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/share)
- [Join your first collaboration session](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/join)

## How-tos

- [Collaborate using Visual Studio Code](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/vscode)
- [Collaborate using Visual Studio](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/vs)

## Reference

- [Connectivity requirements](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/connection-mode)
- [Security features](https://aka.ms/vsls-security)
- [Language and platform support](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/platform-support)
- [Extension support](https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/extensions)
- [Troubleshooting](https://aka.ms/vsls-troubleshooting)

## Resources

- [Provide feedback](https://aka.ms/vsls-support)
- [FAQ](https://aka.ms/vsls-faq)

## Community-created content

- [Visual Studio Code: VS Live Share from Across the World](https://youtu.be/D7w0uGmQEc8)
- [Visual Studio Live Share - Two Developers Coding at Once](https://youtu.be/cg6pRv0D8pw)

## Download and install Visual Studio Live Share

<table style="width: 100%; border:none;">
<tr>
    <td width="128px" style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="docs/media/vs-code.svg" width="128px" alt="Visual Studio Code logo"/></td>
    <td style="border:none;">
        <strong>Visual Studio Code (1.22.0+)</strong><br />
        1. Install <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/">Visual Studio Code</a> for Windows (7, 8.1, or 10), macOS <b>(Sierra+)</b>, or 64-bit Linux <b>(<a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/vscode/install">details</a>)</b><br />
        2. <strong>Linux users</strong>: Be sure you have installed the needed <a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-docs/linux-prerequisites">prerequisite libraries</a>.<br />
        3. Download and install the VS Live Share extension from the marketplace. <br />
        4. Reload and wait for dependencies to download and install (see status bar).<br />
        <a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-dl/vscode"><img src="docs/media/download.png" alt="Download button"></a>
    </td>
</tr>
<tr style="border:none;">
    <td width="128px" style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="docs/media/vs-ide.svg" width="128px" alt="Visual Studio logo"/></td>
    <td style="border:none;">
        <strong>Visual Studio 2017 15.6 or higher</strong><br />
        1. Install the latest version of <a href="https://www.visualstudio.com/vs/">VS 2017</a> (15.6+) on Windows (7, 8.1, or 10).<br/>
        2. Install a supported workload. e.g. ASP.NET, .NET Core, and/or Node.js<br />
        3. Download and install the VS Live Share extension from the marketplace. <br />
        <a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-dl/vs"><img style="padding: 0; spacing: 0;" src="docs/media/download.png" alt="Download button"></a><br />
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

By downloading and using Visual Studio Live Share, you agree to the [license terms](https://aka.ms/vsls-license) and [privacy statement](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/privacystatement/EnterpriseDev/default.aspx). See [troubleshooting](https://aka.ms/vsls-troubleshootin) if you run into problems.

## Contributing & Feedback

Have a question or feedback? There are many ways to contribute.

- [Up-vote a feature or request a new one](https://aka.ms/vsls-feature-requests)
- Search [existing bugs](https://aka.ms/vsls-bugs) or [report a problem](CONTRIBUTING.md#file-a-problem-report)
- Shoot us a [mail](mailto:vsls-feedback@microsoft.com) with suggestions or questions
- Jump on [Slack](https://aka.ms/vsls-slack) to chat with the team
- Hit us up on Twitter using [#vsliveshare](https://aka.ms/vsls-twitter)!

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## License

By downloading and using Visual Studio Live Share, you agree to the product [license terms](https://aka.ms/vsls-license) and [privacy statement](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/privacystatement/EnterpriseDev/default.aspx).

License for documentation:

    Copyright © Microsoft Corporation
    All rights reserved.
    Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License (International): https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode

License for documentation code samples:

    The MIT License (MIT)
    Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation
