docs/quickstart/join.md, before:

---
title: "Join quickstart - Visual Studio Live Share | Microsoft Docs"
description: "An abridged walkthrough on joining your first Visual Studio Live Share collaboration session."
ms.custom:
ms.date: 03/22/2018
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "liveshare"
ms.topic: "quickstart"
author: "chuxel"
ms.author: "clantz"
manager: "AmandaSilver"
ms.workload: 
  - "liveshare"
---

<!--
Copyright © Microsoft Corporation
All rights reserved.
Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License (International): https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode
-->

# Quickstart: Join your first collaboration session

> **Note: Visual Studio Live Share is currently in preview. Features and user experience is not final.**

Welcome to Visual Studio Live Share! Live Share lets you achieve greater confidence at speed by streamlining collaborative editing, debugging, and more in real-time during development. You get real-time sharing in tools you love. You can share the full context of your code, collaboratively edit while still navigating files independently, securely share local servers, and even collaboratively debug while still retaining the ability to inspect on your own.

Ready to get going? Team collaboration should be so quick and natural, that it becomes harder not to do it! For this reason, Visual Studio Live Share makes it simple to get started, so that you can seamlessly begin sharing your work and ideas.

>**Tip:** Did you know you can *join your own collaboration session*? This allows you to try Live Share on your own or to spin up a instance of Visual Studio or VS Code and connect to it remotely! You can even use the same identity on both instances. Check it out!

Just follow these steps to join a collaboration session.

### 1. Install the extension

Installing the extension is easy. Just follow these steps:

<table style="width: 100%; border:none;">
<tr>
    <td width="128px" style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="../media/vs-code.svg" width="128px" alt="Visual Studio Code logo"/></td>
    <td style="border:none;">
        <strong>Visual Studio Code (1.22.0+)</strong><br />
        1. Install <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/">Visual Studio Code</a> for Windows (7, 8.1, or 10), macOS <b>(Sierra+)</b>, 64-bit Linux <b>(<a href="../use/vscode.md#installation">details</a>)</b><br />
        2. Download and install the Visual Studio Live Share extension from the marketplace. <br />
        3. Reload and wait for dependencies to download and install (see status bar).<br />
        4. <strong>Linux</strong>: If prompted to <a href="../reference/linux.md#install-linux-prerequisites">install libraries</a>, click install, enter password, restart VS Code when done.<br />
        <a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-dl/vscode" alt="Download button"><img src="../media/download.png"></a>
    </td>
</tr>
<tr style="border:none;">
    <td width="128px" style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="../media/vs-ide.svg" width="128px" alt="Visual Studio logo"/></td>
    <td  style="border:none;">
        <strong>Visual Studio 2017 15.6 or higher</strong><br />
        1. Install the latest version of <a href="https://www.visualstudio.com/vs/">Visual Studio 2017</a> (15.6+) on Windows (7, 8.1, or 10).<br/>
        2. Install a <a href="../reference/platform-support.md">supported workload</a>. (e.g. ASP.NET, .NET Core, C++, and/or Node.js)<br />
        3. Download and install the Visual Studio Live Share extension from the marketplace. <br />
        <a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-dl/vs"><img style="padding: 0; spacing: 0;" src="../media/download.png" alt="Download button"></a><br />
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

By downloading and using Visual Studio Live Share, you agree to the [license terms](https://aka.ms/vsls-license) and [privacy statement](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/privacystatement/EnterpriseDev/default.aspx). See [troubleshooting](../troubleshooting.md) if you run into problems.

### 2. Sign in

After installing the Live Share extension, restarting, and waiting for dependencies to finish installing (VS Code), you'll want to sign in to let other participants know who you are. If you skip this step, you are asked to sign in during the join process. Click the "sign in" button / status bar item to get started.

<table style="border: none;">
<tr style="border: none;">
    <td width="50%" style="vertical-align: top; border: none;">
        <img src="../media/vscode-sign-in-button.png" width="100%" alt="Visual Studio Code sign in status bar item" />
    </td>
    <td width="50%" style="vertical-align: top; border: none;">
        <img src="../media/vs-sign-in-button.png" width="100%" alt="Visual Studio sign in button"/>
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

In **VS Code**, a browser appears for you to use to complete the sign in process. Simply close the browser when done.

> **Linux users:** VS Code [prompts you to enter a user code](../use/vscode.md#sign-in-using-a-user-code) when it opens the browser window. The code can be found by clicking on the "Having trouble? Click here for user code directions" link that appears in the "Ready to collaborate!" page after you've signed into Live Share via the browser. Simply paste this user code in the prompt's input field in VS Code and hit enter to finish.

In **Visual Studio**, Live Share automatically uses your [personalization account](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/signing-in-to-visual-studio). As a result, you can simply sign in as you would normally. However, if you'd prefer to use a different sign-in than your Visual Studio personalization account, go to **Tools &gt; Options &gt; Live Share &gt; User account** and select different credentials.

See [troubleshooting](../troubleshooting.md#sign-in) if you are still hitting problems.

### 3. Open/re-open the invite link in a browser

Now, simply open (or re-open) the invite link in a browser.

> **Note**: If you have not yet installed the Live Share extension, you'll be presented with links to the extension marketplace. Install the extension and restart your tool and retry.

You should be notified that the browser wants to launch a Live Share enabled tool. If you let it launch your selected tool, you'll be connected to the collaboration session once it starts.

![Join page](../media/join-page.png)

If the host is offline, you'll be notified at this point instead. You can then contact the host and ask them to share again.

> **Troubleshooting Tip:** When using VS Code, be sure you've **started the tool at least once** after installing the extension and waited for the dependencies to finish installing (see the status bar) before opening/re-opening the invite page. Still having trouble? See [join manually](../reference/manual-join.md) for details.

### 5. Collaborate!

That's it!! In a few moments you'll be connected to your colleague's collaboration session. By default, the host auto-accepts people that join, but if the host is set up to [require guest approval](../reference/security.md#requiring-guest-approval) you will see the status bar / join dialog mention that Live Share is waiting on the host to approve your request to join.

> **Security Tip:** As a guest joining a collaboration session, it's important to understand that hosts may restrict your access to certain files or features. Want to understand the security implications of some of Live Share's features and settings? Check out the [security](../reference/security.md) article.

Here's a few things to try out:

1. Move around the project independently and make some edits
2. Check out working intellisense for JavaScript, TypeScript, and/or C# code
3. Jump to the host's location and edit something together
4. Pin to the host and follow as they make edits in different files
5. Ask the host to start up a co-debugging session with you
6. Ask the host to share a server so you can check out something like a web app running on their machine
7. Ask the host to share a terminal and run some commands

Having problems? See [troubleshooting](../troubleshooting.md) or [provide feedback](../support.md).

## Next Steps

Check out these additional articles for more information.

- [Quickstart: Share your first project](share.md)
- [How-to: Collaborate using Visual Studio Code](../use/vscode.md)
- [How-to: Collaborate using Visual Studio](../use/vs.md)

Reference

- [Connectivity requirements for Live Share](../reference/connectivity.md)
- [Security features of Live Share](../reference/security.md)
- [Language and platform support](../reference/platform-support.md)
- [Extension support](../reference/extensions.md)

Commit message:

Linux sign in not longer requires user code

docs/quickstart/join.md, after:

---
title: "Join quickstart - Visual Studio Live Share | Microsoft Docs"
description: "An abridged walkthrough on joining your first Visual Studio Live Share collaboration session."
ms.custom:
ms.date: 03/22/2018
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "liveshare"
ms.topic: "quickstart"
author: "chuxel"
ms.author: "clantz"
manager: "AmandaSilver"
ms.workload: 
  - "liveshare"
---

<!--
Copyright © Microsoft Corporation
All rights reserved.
Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License (International): https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode
-->

# Quickstart: Join your first collaboration session

> **Note: Visual Studio Live Share is currently in preview. Features and user experience is not final.**

Welcome to Visual Studio Live Share! Live Share lets you achieve greater confidence at speed by streamlining collaborative editing, debugging, and more in real-time during development. You get real-time sharing in tools you love. You can share the full context of your code, collaboratively edit while still navigating files independently, securely share local servers, and even collaboratively debug while still retaining the ability to inspect on your own.

Ready to get going? Team collaboration should be so quick and natural, that it becomes harder not to do it! For this reason, Visual Studio Live Share makes it simple to get started, so that you can seamlessly begin sharing your work and ideas.

>**Tip:** Did you know you can *join your own collaboration session*? This allows you to try Live Share on your own or to spin up a instance of Visual Studio or VS Code and connect to it remotely! You can even use the same identity on both instances. Check it out!

Just follow these steps to join a collaboration session.

### 1. Install the extension

Installing the extension is easy. Just follow these steps:

<table style="width: 100%; border:none;">
<tr>
    <td width="128px" style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="../media/vs-code.svg" width="128px" alt="Visual Studio Code logo"/></td>
    <td style="border:none;">
        <strong>Visual Studio Code (1.22.0+)</strong><br />
        1. Install <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/">Visual Studio Code</a> for Windows (7, 8.1, or 10), macOS <b>(Sierra+)</b>, 64-bit Linux <b>(<a href="../use/vscode.md#installation">details</a>)</b><br />
        2. Download and install the Visual Studio Live Share extension from the marketplace. <br />
        3. Reload and wait for dependencies to download and install (see status bar).<br />
        4. <strong>Linux</strong>: If prompted to <a href="../reference/linux.md#install-linux-prerequisites">install libraries</a>, click install, enter password, restart VS Code when done.<br />
        <a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-dl/vscode" alt="Download button"><img src="../media/download.png"></a>
    </td>
</tr>
<tr style="border:none;">
    <td width="128px" style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="../media/vs-ide.svg" width="128px" alt="Visual Studio logo"/></td>
    <td  style="border:none;">
        <strong>Visual Studio 2017 15.6 or higher</strong><br />
        1. Install the latest version of <a href="https://www.visualstudio.com/vs/">Visual Studio 2017</a> (15.6+) on Windows (7, 8.1, or 10).<br/>
        2. Install a <a href="../reference/platform-support.md">supported workload</a>. (e.g. ASP.NET, .NET Core, C++, and/or Node.js)<br />
        3. Download and install the Visual Studio Live Share extension from the marketplace. <br />
        <a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-dl/vs"><img style="padding: 0; spacing: 0;" src="../media/download.png" alt="Download button"></a><br />
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

By downloading and using Visual Studio Live Share, you agree to the [license terms](https://aka.ms/vsls-license) and [privacy statement](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/privacystatement/EnterpriseDev/default.aspx). See [troubleshooting](../troubleshooting.md) if you run into problems.

### 2. Sign in

After installing the Live Share extension, restarting, and waiting for dependencies to finish installing (VS Code), you'll want to sign in to let other participants know who you are. If you skip this step, you are asked to sign in during the join process. Click the "sign in" button / status bar item to get started.

<table style="border: none;">
<tr style="border: none;">
    <td width="50%" style="vertical-align: top; border: none;">
        <img src="../media/vscode-sign-in-button.png" width="100%" alt="Visual Studio Code sign in status bar item" />
    </td>
    <td width="50%" style="vertical-align: top; border: none;">
        <img src="../media/vs-sign-in-button.png" width="100%" alt="Visual Studio sign in button"/>
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

In **VS Code**, a browser appears for you to use to complete the sign in process. Simply close the browser when done.

> **Linux users:** You may be prompted to enter a user code if you are using an older version of Live Share (v0.3.295 or below). Update to the latest version of the extension or click the "Having trouble?" link after sign in to see the code. See [here for details](../use/vscode.md#sign-in-using-a-user-code).

In **Visual Studio**, Live Share automatically uses your [personalization account](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/signing-in-to-visual-studio). As a result, you can simply sign in as you would normally. However, if you'd prefer to use a different sign-in than your Visual Studio personalization account, go to **Tools &gt; Options &gt; Live Share &gt; User account** and select different credentials.

See [troubleshooting](../troubleshooting.md#sign-in) if you are still hitting problems.

### 3. Open/re-open the invite link in a browser

Now, simply open (or re-open) the invite link in a browser.

> **Note**: If you have not yet installed the Live Share extension, you'll be presented with links to the extension marketplace. Install the extension and restart your tool and retry.

You should be notified that the browser wants to launch a Live Share enabled tool. If you let it launch your selected tool, you'll be connected to the collaboration session once it starts.

![Join page](../media/join-page.png)

If the host is offline, you'll be notified at this point instead. You can then contact the host and ask them to share again.

> **Troubleshooting Tip:** When using VS Code, be sure you've **started the tool at least once** after installing the extension and waited for the dependencies to finish installing (see the status bar) before opening/re-opening the invite page. Still having trouble? See [join manually](../reference/manual-join.md) for details.

### 5. Collaborate!

That's it!! In a few moments you'll be connected to your colleague's collaboration session. By default, the host auto-accepts people that join, but if the host is set up to [require guest approval](../reference/security.md#requiring-guest-approval) you will see the status bar / join dialog mention that Live Share is waiting on the host to approve your request to join.

> **Security Tip:** As a guest joining a collaboration session, it's important to understand that hosts may restrict your access to certain files or features. Want to understand the security implications of some of Live Share's features and settings? Check out the [security](../reference/security.md) article.

Here's a few things to try out:

1. Move around the project independently and make some edits
2. Check out working intellisense for JavaScript, TypeScript, and/or C# code
3. Jump to the host's location and edit something together
4. Pin to the host and follow as they make edits in different files
5. Ask the host to start up a co-debugging session with you
6. Ask the host to share a server so you can check out something like a web app running on their machine
7. Ask the host to share a terminal and run some commands

Having problems? See [troubleshooting](../troubleshooting.md) or [provide feedback](../support.md).

## Next Steps

Check out these additional articles for more information.

- [Quickstart: Share your first project](share.md)
- [How-to: Collaborate using Visual Studio Code](../use/vscode.md)
- [How-to: Collaborate using Visual Studio](../use/vs.md)

Reference

- [Connectivity requirements for Live Share](../reference/connectivity.md)
- [Security features of Live Share](../reference/security.md)
- [Language and platform support](../reference/platform-support.md)
- [Extension support](../reference/extensions.md)
