docs/quickstart/share.md, before:

---
title: "Share quickstart - Visual Studio Live Share | Microsoft Docs"
description: "An abridged walkthrough on sharing your first project in Visual Studio Live Share."
ms.custom:
ms.date: 03/22/2018
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "live-share"
ms.topic: "quickstart"
author: "chuxel"
ms.author: "clantz"
manager: "AmandaSilver"
ms.workload: 
  - "live-share"
---

<!--
Copyright © Microsoft Corporation
All rights reserved.
Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License (International): https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode
-->

# Quickstart: Share your first project

Welcome to Visual Studio Live Share! Live Share lets you to achieve greater confidence at speed by streamlining collaborative editing, debugging, and more in real-time during development. You get real-time sharing in tools you love, can share the full context of your code, collaboratively edit while still navigating files independently, securely share local servers, and even collaboratively debug while still retaining the ability to inspect on your own.

Ready to get going?  Team collaboration should be so quick and natural, that it becomes harder not to do it! For this reason, Visual Studio Live Share makes it simple to get started, so that you can seamlessly begin sharing your work and ideas.

Just follow these steps to start sharing.

### 1. Wait for your acceptance email

Anyone can *join* a collaboration session, but you'll need to be accepted into the preview to share. After [signing up](https://aka.ms/vsls-signup) for the Live Share preview, wait to receive your acceptance email. Be sure to check your junk mail from time to time just in case!

### 2. Install the extension

Installing the extension is easy. Just follow these steps:

<table style="width: 100%; border:none;">
<tr>
    <td width="128px" style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="../media/vs-ide.svg" /></td>
    <td  style="border:none;">
        <strong>Visual Studio 2017 15.6 or higher</strong><br />
       1. Install the latest version of <a href="https://www.visualstudio.com/vs/">VS 2017</a> (15.6+) on Windows (7, 8.1, or 10).<br/>
       2. Install a supported workload. e.g. ASP.NET, .NET Core, and/or Node.js<br />
       3. Download and install the VS Live Share extension from the marketplace. <br />
       <a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-dl/vs"><img style="padding: 0; spacing: 0;" src="../media/download.png"></a><br />
    </td>
</tr>
<tr style="border:none;">
    <td width="128px" style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="../media/vs-code.svg" /></td>
    <td style="border:none;">
        <strong>Visual Studio Code</strong><br />
        1. Install <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/">Visual Studio Code</a> for Windows (7, 8.1, or 10), macOS <b>(Sierra+)</b>, or 64-bit Linux <b>(<a href="../use/vscode.md#installation">details</a>)</b><br />
        2. Download and install the VS Live Share extension from the marketplace. <br />
        3. Reload and wait for dependencies to download and install (see status bar).<br />
        <a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-dl/vscode"><img src="../media/download.png"></a>
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

By downloading and using Visual Studio Live Share, you agree to the [license terms](https://aka.ms/vsls-license) and [privacy statement](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/privacystatement/EnterpriseDev/default.aspx). See [troubleshooting](../troubleshooting.md) if you run into problems.

### 3. Sign in

After installing the Live Share extension, restarting, and waiting for dependencies to finish installing (VS Code), sign in with **credentials that are associated with the email you used to sign up**. These can be a Microsoft personal account (e.g. @outlook.com), Microsoft-backed work or school account (AAD), or a GitHub account. Click the "sign in" button / status bar item to get started.

<table style="border: none;">
<tr style="border: none;">
    <td width="50%" style="vertical-align: top; border: none;">
        <img src="../media/vscode-sign-in-button.png" width="100%" />
    </td>
    <td width="50%" style="vertical-align: top; border: none;">
        <img src="../media/vs-sign-in-button.png" width="100%" />
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

In VS Code, a browser will appear for you use to sign in. If you are using VS Code on Linux, you'll be prompted to enter a user code once that will be displayed in the browser once you've signed in. Otherwise you can simply close the browser.

If you are using Visual Studio and have already signed into the tool, Visual Studio Live Share will automatically use your [personalization account](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/signing-in-to-visual-studio) so you can skip this step! If prefer to use a different sign-in than your VS personalization account, go to **Tools &gt; Options &gt; Live Share &gt; User account** to switch credentials.

If you signed up with an email that **is not already tied to a Microsoft personal, work, or school account or a GitHub account**, use this trick to unblock yourself:

1. Add the email as a secondary address to your GitHub profile
2. Verify it
3. Sign out of Live Share (if you've signed in) and back in again using your GitHub profile

There are a few other tips in [troubleshooting](../troubleshooting.md#sign-in), but if this still doesn't work, email vsls-feedback@microsoft.com and we can swap your email out.

### 4. Start a collaboration session

Open a folder, project, or solution, and simply click "Share" within your tool and an invite link will be automatically copied to your clipboard.

<table style="border: none;">
<tr style="border: none;">
    <td width="50%" style="vertical-align: top; border: none;">
        <img src="../media/vscode-share-button.png" width="100%" />
    </td>
    <td width="50%" style="vertical-align: top; border: none;">
        <img src="../media/vs-share-button.png" width="100%" />
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

> **Note:** You may be asked by your desktop firewall software to allow the Live Share agent to open a port the first time you share. Accepting this is entirely optional but enables a secured "direct mode" to improve performance when the person you are working with is on the same network as you are. See [change the connection mode](../reference/connectivity.md#changing-the-connection-mode) for details.

### 5. Send someone the invite link

Send the link over e-mail, Slack, Skype, etc. and when opened in a browser will allow them to join a collaboration session that shares contents of the folder, project, or solution you opened. 

Note that the **person you invite does not need to sign up or be accepted into the preview** and will not receive any email updates by simply signing in. The web page for the invite link contains everything they need to know to download, install needed tools, and join the collaboration session. (However, they will not be able to _create_ their own collaboration sessions until they've been accepted in the preview.)

If they've got more questions, the "[Quickstart: Join your first session](join.md)" article provides some more information on getting up and running as a guest.

### 6. Collaborate!

That's it!! Here's a few things to try out once a guest has joined you:

1. Move around to different files in the project independently and make some edits
2. Jump to the guest's location and edit something together
3. Pin to the guest and follow as they make edits in different files
4. Start up a co-debugging session with them
5. Share a local server so you can check out something like a web app running on their machine

Check out the [Visual Studio Code](../use/vscode.md) and [Visual Studio](../use/vs.md) extension docs for information on how to do these actions and more.

Still having problems? See [troubleshooting](../troubleshooting.md).

## See also

- [Quickstart: Join your first session](join.md)
- [Using Visual Studio Code with Live Share](../use/vscode.md)
- [Using Visual Studio with Live Share](../use/vs.md)

Reference
- [Language and platform support](../reference/platform-support.md)
- [Extension support](../reference/extensions.md)
- [Troubleshooting](../troubleshooting.md)
- [Provide feedback](../support.md)

Commit message:

Highlight you can join your own collaboration session

docs/quickstart/share.md, after:

---
title: "Share quickstart - Visual Studio Live Share | Microsoft Docs"
description: "An abridged walkthrough on sharing your first project in Visual Studio Live Share."
ms.custom:
ms.date: 03/22/2018
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.technology: 
  - "live-share"
ms.topic: "quickstart"
author: "chuxel"
ms.author: "clantz"
manager: "AmandaSilver"
ms.workload: 
  - "live-share"
---

<!--
Copyright © Microsoft Corporation
All rights reserved.
Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License (International): https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode
-->

# Quickstart: Share your first project

Welcome to Visual Studio Live Share! Live Share lets you to achieve greater confidence at speed by streamlining collaborative editing, debugging, and more in real-time during development. You get real-time sharing in tools you love, can share the full context of your code, collaboratively edit while still navigating files independently, securely share local servers, and even collaboratively debug while still retaining the ability to inspect on your own.

Ready to get going?  Team collaboration should be so quick and natural, that it becomes harder not to do it! For this reason, Visual Studio Live Share makes it simple to get started, so that you can seamlessly begin sharing your work and ideas.

>**Tip:** Did you know you can *join your own collaboration session*? This allows you to try Live Share on your own or to spin up a instance of VS or VS Code and connect to it remotely! You can even use the same identity on both instances. Check it out!

Just follow these steps to start sharing.

### 1. Wait for your acceptance email

Anyone can *join* a collaboration session, but you'll need to be accepted into the preview to share. After [signing up](https://aka.ms/vsls-signup) for the Live Share preview, wait to receive your acceptance email. Be sure to check your junk mail from time to time just in case!

### 2. Install the extension

Installing the extension is easy. Just follow these steps:

<table style="width: 100%; border:none;">
<tr>
    <td width="128px" style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="../media/vs-ide.svg" /></td>
    <td  style="border:none;">
        <strong>Visual Studio 2017 15.6 or higher</strong><br />
       1. Install the latest version of <a href="https://www.visualstudio.com/vs/">VS 2017</a> (15.6+) on Windows (7, 8.1, or 10).<br/>
       2. Install a supported workload. e.g. ASP.NET, .NET Core, and/or Node.js<br />
       3. Download and install the VS Live Share extension from the marketplace. <br />
       <a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-dl/vs"><img style="padding: 0; spacing: 0;" src="../media/download.png"></a><br />
    </td>
</tr>
<tr style="border:none;">
    <td width="128px" style="width: 128px; text-align: center; border:none;"><img src="../media/vs-code.svg" /></td>
    <td style="border:none;">
        <strong>Visual Studio Code</strong><br />
        1. Install <a href="https://code.visualstudio.com/">Visual Studio Code</a> for Windows (7, 8.1, or 10), macOS <b>(Sierra+)</b>, or 64-bit Linux <b>(<a href="../use/vscode.md#installation">details</a>)</b><br />
        2. Download and install the VS Live Share extension from the marketplace. <br />
        3. Reload and wait for dependencies to download and install (see status bar).<br />
        <a href="https://aka.ms/vsls-dl/vscode"><img src="../media/download.png"></a>
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

By downloading and using Visual Studio Live Share, you agree to the [license terms](https://aka.ms/vsls-license) and [privacy statement](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/privacystatement/EnterpriseDev/default.aspx). See [troubleshooting](../troubleshooting.md) if you run into problems.

### 3. Sign in

After installing the Live Share extension, restarting, and waiting for dependencies to finish installing (VS Code), sign in with **credentials that are associated with the email you used to sign up**. These can be a Microsoft personal account (e.g. @outlook.com), Microsoft-backed work or school account (AAD), or a GitHub account. Click the "sign in" button / status bar item to get started.

<table style="border: none;">
<tr style="border: none;">
    <td width="50%" style="vertical-align: top; border: none;">
        <img src="../media/vscode-sign-in-button.png" width="100%" />
    </td>
    <td width="50%" style="vertical-align: top; border: none;">
        <img src="../media/vs-sign-in-button.png" width="100%" />
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

In VS Code, a browser will appear for you use to sign in. If you are using VS Code on Linux, you'll be prompted to enter a user code once that will be displayed in the browser once you've signed in. Otherwise you can simply close the browser.

If you are using Visual Studio and have already signed into the tool, Visual Studio Live Share will automatically use your [personalization account](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/ide/signing-in-to-visual-studio) so you can skip this step! If prefer to use a different sign-in than your VS personalization account, go to **Tools &gt; Options &gt; Live Share &gt; User account** to switch credentials.

If you signed up with an email that **is not already tied to a Microsoft personal, work, or school account or a GitHub account**, use this trick to unblock yourself:

1. Add the email as a secondary address to your GitHub profile
2. Verify it
3. Sign out of Live Share (if you've signed in) and back in again using your GitHub profile

There are a few other tips in [troubleshooting](../troubleshooting.md#sign-in), but if this still doesn't work, email vsls-feedback@microsoft.com and we can swap your email out.

### 4. Start a collaboration session

Open a folder, project, or solution, and simply click "Share" within your tool and an invite link will be automatically copied to your clipboard.

<table style="border: none;">
<tr style="border: none;">
    <td width="50%" style="vertical-align: top; border: none;">
        <img src="../media/vscode-share-button.png" width="100%" />
    </td>
    <td width="50%" style="vertical-align: top; border: none;">
        <img src="../media/vs-share-button.png" width="100%" />
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

> **Note:** You may be asked by your desktop firewall software to allow the Live Share agent to open a port the first time you share. Accepting this is entirely optional but enables a secured "direct mode" to improve performance when the person you are working with is on the same network as you are. See [change the connection mode](../reference/connectivity.md#changing-the-connection-mode) for details.

### 5. Send someone the invite link

Send the link over e-mail, Slack, Skype, etc. and when opened in a browser will allow them to join a collaboration session that shares contents of the folder, project, or solution you opened. 

Note that the **person you invite does not need to sign up or be accepted into the preview** and will not receive any email updates by simply signing in. The web page for the invite link contains everything they need to know to download, install needed tools, and join the collaboration session. (However, they will not be able to _create_ their own collaboration sessions until they've been accepted in the preview.)

If they've got more questions, the "[Quickstart: Join your first session](join.md)" article provides some more information on getting up and running as a guest.

### 6. Collaborate!

That's it!! Here's a few things to try out once a guest has joined you:

1. Move around to different files in the project independently and make some edits
2. Jump to the guest's location and edit something together
3. Pin to the guest and follow as they make edits in different files
4. Start up a co-debugging session with them
5. Share a local server so you can check out something like a web app running on their machine

Check out the [Visual Studio Code](../use/vscode.md) and [Visual Studio](../use/vs.md) extension docs for information on how to do these actions and more.

Still having problems? See [troubleshooting](../troubleshooting.md).

## See also

- [Quickstart: Join your first session](join.md)
- [Using Visual Studio Code with Live Share](../use/vscode.md)
- [Using Visual Studio with Live Share](../use/vs.md)

Reference
- [Language and platform support](../reference/platform-support.md)
- [Extension support](../reference/extensions.md)
- [Troubleshooting](../troubleshooting.md)
- [Provide feedback](../support.md)
