docs/use/policies-visual-studio.md, before:

---
title: Configure Visual Studio using Group Policy Administrative Templates (Preview) 
titleSuffix: Live Share
description: Learn how to get started with Group Policy Administrative Template files to ensure sessions are controlled the way you want.
ms.date: 08/15/2022
ms.reviewer: mikejo5000
ms.topic: how-to
author: curib
ms.author: cauribeg
manager: jmartens
ms.custom: devdivchpfy22
---

<!--
Copyright © Microsoft Corporation
All rights reserved.
Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License (International): https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode
-->

# Configure Visual Studio using Group Policy Administrative Templates (Preview)

To control certain aspects of Visual Studio Live Share behavior to achieve consistency or compliance across your organization, you can now configure Visual Studio using [Group Policy Administrative Templates (ADMX/ADML files)](https://aka.ms/vs/admx/details). The Visual Studio group policy settings contained in the ADMX file are machine wide for all users.

With these policies, your organization will be able to add an extra layer of protection to prevent accidents on Visual Studio Live Share and increase productivity.

## Policies Supported

![Screenshot that shows the Local Group Policy Editor](../media/policies-visual-studio/live-share-policies.png)

**Allow only domain accounts:** Prevents users from being able to share their session with any guests who are not part of the domain that the organization allows via policy. Users must also be [signed in](install-live-share-visual-studio.md#sign-in) with the domain account that the organization allows via this policy to share a session. When enabling this policy, multiple domains can be added by using a semicolon to separate each domain.

**Disable read-write terminals:** Prevent the host from being able to explicitly share a new [writeable terminal](share-server-visual-studio.md#share-a-terminal). This policy also suppresses the option for the guest to request write access to a terminal. This would effectively look like the experience you see today in a read-only session (you can’t share writeable terminals) but would apply to read/write sessions too.

**Disable shared servers:** Prevent the host from being able to explicitly share a new [server](share-server-visual-studio.md#share-a-server), as well as auto-sharing of servers from the terminal. In this mode, the “Shared Servers” node in the “Session Details” tree view will be hidden, along with all associated commands.

**Require direct connection:** Prevents hosts from allowing [relay-based guests](../overview/features.md#flexible-connection-modes) from joining their session. Live Share already supports the “Live Share: Connection Mode” setting, and so this policy is effectively just enforcing it to “direct”.

**Disable anonymous guests:** Disallow anonymous guests from joining a session. We already have the [“Live Share: Anonymous Guest Approval”](../reference/security.md#auto-rejecting-or-accepting-users-that-are-not-signed-in-anonymous) setting, and so this policy is effectively just enforcing that to “reject”.

**Enforce accepting/rejecting a guest:** Requires the host to individually accept each guest that attempts to join a session. We already have the ["Live Share: Guest Approval Required"](../reference/security.md#requiring-guest-approval-for-signed-in-users) setting, so this policy is effectively just enforcing that to "true".

## Step 1: Download the latest Visual Studio Live Share version

To get started with enabling policies, you’ll need to [download](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MS-vsliveshare.vsls-vs-2022) the latest Visual Studio Live Share version from the Visual Studio Marketplace.

## Step 2: Download the Preview templates

Next, head over to the Microsoft Download Center and grab the [Visual Studio Group Policy Administrative Template files (ADMX/ADML)](https://aka.ms/vs/admx/details). It’ll ask you where you want the files to be downloaded, please ensure the location is ‘C:\Windows\PolicyDefinitions\en-US’.

## Step 3: Test using the Local Group Policy Editor

- Open the Windows Local Group Policy Editor
- Navigate to the Administrative Templates > Microsoft Visual Studio node
- Apply the desired policy changes to Visual Studio
- Ensure the new group policy changes are applied to the respective product's path:
  Computer\HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\VisualStudio\
- Restart your Visual Studio instance to pick up the new policy changes

**Note**: Depending on your organization’s policy, you might need to force a group policy update via gpupdate.exe to apply the change.

After all desired policies are set, teams across your organization can confidently collaborate with Visual Studio Live Share.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Which version of Live Share is needed?

The [latest version](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MS-vsliveshare.vsls-vs-2022) of Visual Studio Live Share is needed to get started.

### Do these policies apply to Visual Studio Code?

No, these policies only apply to Visual Studio.

## Contact us

Please share with us any feedback you have about Live Share. You can email us at vsls-feedback@microsoft.com or submit feedback [here](https://aka.ms/vs/admx/feedback). We look forward to hearing from you!

Commit message:

Enterprise updates (#4800)
* New documentation for VS policies

* Derek's feedback

* fix file issues

* change feedback header

* Update TOC

* Improve instructions in enterprise doc

docs/use/policies-visual-studio.md, after:

---
title: Configure Visual Studio using Group Policy Administrative Templates (Preview) 
titleSuffix: Live Share
description: Learn how to get started with Group Policy Administrative Template files to ensure sessions are controlled the way you want.
ms.date: 08/15/2022
ms.reviewer: mikejo5000
ms.topic: how-to
author: curib
ms.author: cauribeg
manager: jmartens
ms.custom: devdivchpfy22
---

<!--
Copyright © Microsoft Corporation
All rights reserved.
Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License (International): https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode
-->

# Configure Visual Studio using Group Policy Administrative Templates (Preview)

To control certain aspects of Visual Studio Live Share behavior to achieve consistency or compliance across your organization, you can now configure Visual Studio using [Group Policy Administrative Templates (ADMX/ADML files)](https://aka.ms/vs/admx/details). The Visual Studio group policy settings contained in the ADMX file are machine wide for all users.

With these policies, your organization will be able to add an extra layer of protection to prevent accidents on Visual Studio Live Share and increase productivity.

## Policies Supported

![Screenshot that shows the Local Group Policy Editor](../media/policies-visual-studio/live-share-policies.png)

**Allow only domain accounts:** Prevents users from being able to share their session with any guests who are not part of the domain that the organization allows via policy. Users must also be [signed in](install-live-share-visual-studio.md#sign-in) with the domain account that the organization allows via this policy to share a session. When enabling this policy, multiple domains can be added by using a semicolon to separate each domain.

**Disable read-write terminals:** Prevent the host from being able to explicitly share a new [writeable terminal](share-server-visual-studio.md#share-a-terminal). This policy also suppresses the option for the guest to request write access to a terminal. This would effectively look like the experience you see today in a read-only session (you can’t share writeable terminals) but would apply to read/write sessions too.

**Disable shared servers:** Prevent the host from being able to explicitly share a new [server](share-server-visual-studio.md#share-a-server), as well as auto-sharing of servers from the terminal. In this mode, the “Shared Servers” node in the “Session Details” tree view will be hidden, along with all associated commands.

**Require direct connection:** Prevents hosts from allowing [relay-based guests](../overview/features.md#flexible-connection-modes) from joining their session. Live Share already supports the “Live Share: Connection Mode” setting, and so this policy is effectively just enforcing it to “direct”.

**Disable anonymous guests:** Disallow anonymous guests from joining a session. We already have the [“Live Share: Anonymous Guest Approval”](../reference/security.md#auto-rejecting-or-accepting-users-that-are-not-signed-in-anonymous) setting, and so this policy is effectively just enforcing that to “reject”.

**Enforce accepting/rejecting a guest:** Requires the host to individually accept each guest that attempts to join a session. We already have the ["Live Share: Guest Approval Required"](../reference/security.md#requiring-guest-approval-for-signed-in-users) setting, so this policy is effectively just enforcing that to "true".

## Step 1: Download the latest Visual Studio Live Share version

To get started with enabling policies, you’ll need to [download](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MS-vsliveshare.vsls-vs-2022) the latest Visual Studio Live Share version from the Visual Studio Marketplace.

## Step 2: Download the Preview templates

Next, head over to the Microsoft Download Center and grab the [Visual Studio Group Policy Administrative Template files (ADMX/ADML)](https://aka.ms/vs/admx/details). It’ll ask you where you want the files to be downloaded, please ensure the location is ‘C:\Windows\PolicyDefinitions\'.

## Step 3: Test using the Local Group Policy Editor

- Open the Windows Local Group Policy Editor
- Navigate to Computer Configuration > Administrative Templates > Visual Studio > Live Share Settings
- Apply the desired policy changes to Visual Studio Live Share
- [Optional] Ensure the new group policy changes are applied to the respective product's path in the Registry Editor:
  Computer\HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\VisualStudio\LiveShare
  ![Screenshot that shows the Registry Editor](../media/policies-visual-studio/registry-editor.png)
- Restart your Visual Studio instance to pick up the new policy changes

**Note**: Depending on your organization’s policy, you might need to force a group policy update via gpupdate.exe to apply the change.

After all desired policies are set, teams across your organization can confidently collaborate with Visual Studio Live Share.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Which version of Live Share is needed?

The [latest version](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MS-vsliveshare.vsls-vs-2022) of Visual Studio Live Share is needed to get started.

### Do these policies apply to Visual Studio Code?

No, these policies only apply to Visual Studio.

### Why isn't the policy I enabled working?

To use the new Live Share policies, you need to have the [latest version](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MS-vsliveshare.vsls-vs-2022) of Visual Studio Live Share. If the issue still persists after updating Live Share, please contact us at vsls-feedback@microsoft.com.

## Contact us

Please share with us any feedback you have about Live Share. You can email us at vsls-feedback@microsoft.com or submit feedback [here](https://aka.ms/vs/admx/feedback). We look forward to hearing from you!
